konecta_erp/docs/DEPLOYMENT.md, before:

# Deployment Guide

Complete guide for deploying Konecta ERP to production environments.

---

## 📋 Prerequisites

- **Docker** and **Docker Compose** installed
- **AWS EC2** instance (or similar cloud provider)
- **Docker Hub** account for image registry
- **GitHub Actions** configured (for CI/CD)
- **SSH access** to deployment server

---

## 🚀 Quick Deployment

### Step 1: Prepare EC2 Instance

1. **Launch EC2 instance** (Ubuntu 22.04 or Amazon Linux 2023)
2. **Install Docker**:
   ```bash
   # Ubuntu
   sudo apt-get update
   sudo apt-get install docker.io -y
   sudo systemctl start docker
   sudo systemctl enable docker
   sudo usermod -aG docker ubuntu
   
   # Install Docker Compose
   sudo curl -L "https://github.com/docker/compose/releases/latest/download/docker-compose-$(uname -s)-$(uname -m)" -o /usr/local/bin/docker-compose
   sudo chmod +x /usr/local/bin/docker-compose
   ```

3. **Configure Security Group**:
   - Allow SSH (22) - from your IP
   - Allow HTTP (80) - from 0.0.0.0/0
   - Allow HTTPS (443) - from 0.0.0.0/0
   - Allow API Gateway (8080) - from 0.0.0.0/0
   - Allow Management UIs (15672, 8500) - restrict to your IP

### Step 2: Deploy Application

1. **Copy files to EC2**:
   ```bash
   scp -i key.pem docker-compose.prod.yml ubuntu@ec2-ip:/opt/konecta-erp/
   scp -i key.pem -r docker/ ubuntu@ec2-ip:/opt/konecta-erp/
   ```

2. **SSH into EC2**:
   ```bash
   ssh -i key.pem ubuntu@ec2-ip
   ```

3. **Login to Docker Hub**:
   ```bash
   docker login -u your-username
   ```

4. **Update docker-compose.prod.yml** with your Docker Hub username

5. **Start services**:
   ```bash
   cd /opt/konecta-erp
   docker-compose -f docker-compose.prod.yml up -d
   ```

6. **Verify deployment**:
   ```bash
   docker-compose ps
   curl http://localhost:8080/actuator/health
   ```

---

## 🔧 Production Configuration

### Environment Variables

Set environment variables in `docker-compose.prod.yml`:

```yaml
environment:
  ASPNETCORE_ENVIRONMENT: Production
  ConnectionStrings__DefaultConnection: "Server=sqlserver;Database=Konecta_Auth;..."
  JwtOptions__SecretKey: "your-production-secret-key"
  RabbitMq__HostName: "rabbitmq"
  RabbitMq__Port: "5672"
```

### Docker Compose Production

Use `docker-compose.prod.yml` which:
- Uses Docker Hub images instead of building locally
- Includes production configurations
- Sets up proper networking
- Configures health checks

---

## 🔄 CI/CD Deployment

### GitHub Actions Setup

The CI/CD pipeline automatically:
1. **Tests** - Runs all tests
2. **Builds** - Builds Docker images
3. **Pushes** - Pushes to Docker Hub
4. **Deploys** - Deploys to EC2

### Required Secrets

Configure in GitHub → Settings → Secrets:

| Secret | Description |
|--------|------------|
| `DOCKER_USERNAME` | Docker Hub username |
| `DOCKER_PASSWORD` | Docker Hub access token |
| `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID` | AWS access key |
| `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` | AWS secret key |
| `AWS_REGION` | AWS region |
| `EC2_HOST` | EC2 instance IP/DNS |
| `EC2_USER` | SSH username (ubuntu/ec2-user) |
| `EC2_SSH_PRIVATE_KEY` | SSH private key content |

See [Secrets Setup Guide](../devops/SECRETS_SETUP.md) for detailed instructions.

### Pipeline Triggers

- **Push to `main`**: Full pipeline (test, build, push, deploy)
- **Push to `develop`**: Test and build only
- **Pull Request**: Test only

---

## 📊 Monitoring

### Health Checks

All services include health check endpoints:

```bash
# API Gateway
curl http://localhost:8080/actuator/health

# Individual services
curl http://localhost:7280/health  # Authentication
curl http://localhost:5005/health   # HR
```

### Logs

View logs for monitoring:

```bash
# All services
docker-compose logs -f

# Specific service
docker-compose logs -f authentication-service

# Last 100 lines
docker-compose logs --tail=100 authentication-service
```

### Service Discovery

Check service health via Consul:
- **Consul UI**: http://your-server:8500
- View registered services and health status

---

## 🔐 Security Best Practices

### 1. Secrets Management

- Never commit secrets to repository
- Use environment variables or secrets manager
- Rotate secrets regularly

### 2. Network Security

- Use private networks for services
- Expose only necessary ports
- Use firewall rules

### 3. SSL/TLS

- Enable HTTPS in production
- Use reverse proxy (Nginx/Traefik)
- Configure SSL certificates

### 4. Database Security

- Use strong passwords
- Restrict database access
- Enable encryption at rest

### 5. Container Security

- Use official base images
- Keep images updated
- Scan for vulnerabilities

---

## 🔄 Updates and Rollbacks

### Updating Services

1. **Pull latest images**:
   ```bash
   docker-compose pull
   ```

2. **Restart services**:
   ```bash
   docker-compose up -d
   ```

3. **Verify health**:
   ```bash
   docker-compose ps
   curl http://localhost:8080/actuator/health
   ```

### Rolling Back

1. **Check previous image tags**:
   ```bash
   docker images
   ```

2. **Update docker-compose.prod.yml** with previous tag

3. **Restart services**:
   ```bash
   docker-compose up -d
   ```

---

## 📈 Scaling

### Horizontal Scaling

Scale services independently:

```bash
# Scale HR service to 3 instances
docker-compose up -d --scale hr-service=3
```

### Load Balancing

API Gateway automatically load balances requests across service instances.

### Database Scaling

- Use read replicas for read-heavy workloads
- Consider database sharding for large datasets
- Implement connection pooling

---

## 🗄️ Database Management

### Backups

```bash
# Backup SQL Server databases
docker compose exec sqlserver /opt/mssql-tools18/bin/sqlcmd \
  -S localhost -U sa -P "password" \
  -Q "BACKUP DATABASE Konecta_Auth TO DISK = '/backup/auth.bak'"
```

### Restore

```bash
# Restore from backup
docker compose exec sqlserver /opt/mssql-tools18/bin/sqlcmd \
  -S localhost -U sa -P "password" \
  -Q "RESTORE DATABASE Konecta_Auth FROM DISK = '/backup/auth.bak'"
```

---

## 🐛 Troubleshooting

### Services Not Starting

1. Check logs: `docker-compose logs <service-name>`
2. Verify resources (CPU/RAM)
3. Check dependencies are running
4. Verify configuration

### Database Connection Issues

1. Verify SQL Server is running
2. Check connection strings
3. Verify network connectivity
4. Check firewall rules

### High Memory Usage

1. Monitor container resources
2. Scale services horizontally
3. Optimize application code
4. Increase server resources

For more troubleshooting, see [Troubleshooting Guide](../devops/TROUBLESHOOTING.md).

---

## 📚 Related Documentation

- [CI/CD Quick Start](../devops/CI_CD_QUICK_START.md) - CI/CD setup
- [Secrets Setup](../devops/SECRETS_SETUP.md) - Secrets configuration
- [Architecture](ARCHITECTURE.md) - System architecture
- [Troubleshooting](../devops/TROUBLESHOOTING.md) - Common issues

---

**Last Updated**: November 2025

Commit message:

docs: Document incomplete cloud deployment and add AI Docker builds to CI/CD
- Added deployment status notes explaining cloud deployment was not completed
- Added AI/ML Docker builds (hr-model, prophet-model) to CI/CD pipeline
- Updated workflow to include continue-on-error for deployment job
- Updated documentation to reflect current deployment status
- Clarified that all Docker images build and push successfully

konecta_erp/docs/DEPLOYMENT.md, after:

# Deployment Guide

Complete guide for deploying Konecta ERP to production environments.

> **⚠️ Deployment Status Note**: The cloud deployment process was not fully completed due to infrastructure challenges encountered by the Cloud team. The CI/CD pipeline includes deployment steps, but the actual cloud deployment to AWS EC2 is currently incomplete. This documentation describes the intended deployment process. For local development and testing, all services can be run successfully using Docker Compose.

---

## 📋 Prerequisites

- **Docker** and **Docker Compose** installed
- **AWS EC2** instance (or similar cloud provider)
- **Docker Hub** account for image registry
- **GitHub Actions** configured (for CI/CD)
- **SSH access** to deployment server

---

## 🚀 Quick Deployment

### Step 1: Prepare EC2 Instance

1. **Launch EC2 instance** (Ubuntu 22.04 or Amazon Linux 2023)
2. **Install Docker**:
   ```bash
   # Ubuntu
   sudo apt-get update
   sudo apt-get install docker.io -y
   sudo systemctl start docker
   sudo systemctl enable docker
   sudo usermod -aG docker ubuntu
   
   # Install Docker Compose
   sudo curl -L "https://github.com/docker/compose/releases/latest/download/docker-compose-$(uname -s)-$(uname -m)" -o /usr/local/bin/docker-compose
   sudo chmod +x /usr/local/bin/docker-compose
   ```

3. **Configure Security Group**:
   - Allow SSH (22) - from your IP
   - Allow HTTP (80) - from 0.0.0.0/0
   - Allow HTTPS (443) - from 0.0.0.0/0
   - Allow API Gateway (8080) - from 0.0.0.0/0
   - Allow Management UIs (15672, 8500) - restrict to your IP

### Step 2: Deploy Application

1. **Copy files to EC2**:
   ```bash
   scp -i key.pem docker-compose.prod.yml ubuntu@ec2-ip:/opt/konecta-erp/
   scp -i key.pem -r docker/ ubuntu@ec2-ip:/opt/konecta-erp/
   ```

2. **SSH into EC2**:
   ```bash
   ssh -i key.pem ubuntu@ec2-ip
   ```

3. **Login to Docker Hub**:
   ```bash
   docker login -u your-username
   ```

4. **Update docker-compose.prod.yml** with your Docker Hub username

5. **Start services**:
   ```bash
   cd /opt/konecta-erp
   docker-compose -f docker-compose.prod.yml up -d
   ```

6. **Verify deployment**:
   ```bash
   docker-compose ps
   curl http://localhost:8080/actuator/health
   ```

---

## 🔧 Production Configuration

### Environment Variables

Set environment variables in `docker-compose.prod.yml`:

```yaml
environment:
  ASPNETCORE_ENVIRONMENT: Production
  ConnectionStrings__DefaultConnection: "Server=sqlserver;Database=Konecta_Auth;..."
  JwtOptions__SecretKey: "your-production-secret-key"
  RabbitMq__HostName: "rabbitmq"
  RabbitMq__Port: "5672"
```

### Docker Compose Production

Use `docker-compose.prod.yml` which:
- Uses Docker Hub images instead of building locally
- Includes production configurations
- Sets up proper networking
- Configures health checks

---

## 🔄 CI/CD Deployment

### GitHub Actions Setup

The CI/CD pipeline automatically:
1. **Tests** - Runs all tests
2. **Builds** - Builds Docker images
3. **Pushes** - Pushes to Docker Hub
4. **Deploys** - Deploys to EC2

### Required Secrets

Configure in GitHub → Settings → Secrets:

| Secret | Description |
|--------|------------|
| `DOCKER_USERNAME` | Docker Hub username |
| `DOCKER_PASSWORD` | Docker Hub access token |
| `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID` | AWS access key |
| `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` | AWS secret key |
| `AWS_REGION` | AWS region |
| `EC2_HOST` | EC2 instance IP/DNS |
| `EC2_USER` | SSH username (ubuntu/ec2-user) |
| `EC2_SSH_PRIVATE_KEY` | SSH private key content |

See [Secrets Setup Guide](../devops/SECRETS_SETUP.md) for detailed instructions.

### Pipeline Triggers

- **Push to `main`**: Full pipeline (test, build, push, deploy)
- **Push to `develop`**: Test and build only
- **Pull Request**: Test only

---

## 📊 Monitoring

### Health Checks

All services include health check endpoints:

```bash
# API Gateway
curl http://localhost:8080/actuator/health

# Individual services
curl http://localhost:7280/health  # Authentication
curl http://localhost:5005/health   # HR
```

### Logs

View logs for monitoring:

```bash
# All services
docker-compose logs -f

# Specific service
docker-compose logs -f authentication-service

# Last 100 lines
docker-compose logs --tail=100 authentication-service
```

### Service Discovery

Check service health via Consul:
- **Consul UI**: http://your-server:8500
- View registered services and health status

---

## 🔐 Security Best Practices

### 1. Secrets Management

- Never commit secrets to repository
- Use environment variables or secrets manager
- Rotate secrets regularly

### 2. Network Security

- Use private networks for services
- Expose only necessary ports
- Use firewall rules

### 3. SSL/TLS

- Enable HTTPS in production
- Use reverse proxy (Nginx/Traefik)
- Configure SSL certificates

### 4. Database Security

- Use strong passwords
- Restrict database access
- Enable encryption at rest

### 5. Container Security

- Use official base images
- Keep images updated
- Scan for vulnerabilities

---

## 🔄 Updates and Rollbacks

### Updating Services

1. **Pull latest images**:
   ```bash
   docker-compose pull
   ```

2. **Restart services**:
   ```bash
   docker-compose up -d
   ```

3. **Verify health**:
   ```bash
   docker-compose ps
   curl http://localhost:8080/actuator/health
   ```

### Rolling Back

1. **Check previous image tags**:
   ```bash
   docker images
   ```

2. **Update docker-compose.prod.yml** with previous tag

3. **Restart services**:
   ```bash
   docker-compose up -d
   ```

---

## 📈 Scaling

### Horizontal Scaling

Scale services independently:

```bash
# Scale HR service to 3 instances
docker-compose up -d --scale hr-service=3
```

### Load Balancing

API Gateway automatically load balances requests across service instances.

### Database Scaling

- Use read replicas for read-heavy workloads
- Consider database sharding for large datasets
- Implement connection pooling

---

## 🗄️ Database Management

### Backups

```bash
# Backup SQL Server databases
docker compose exec sqlserver /opt/mssql-tools18/bin/sqlcmd \
  -S localhost -U sa -P "password" \
  -Q "BACKUP DATABASE Konecta_Auth TO DISK = '/backup/auth.bak'"
```

### Restore

```bash
# Restore from backup
docker compose exec sqlserver /opt/mssql-tools18/bin/sqlcmd \
  -S localhost -U sa -P "password" \
  -Q "RESTORE DATABASE Konecta_Auth FROM DISK = '/backup/auth.bak'"
```

---

## 🐛 Troubleshooting

### Services Not Starting

1. Check logs: `docker-compose logs <service-name>`
2. Verify resources (CPU/RAM)
3. Check dependencies are running
4. Verify configuration

### Database Connection Issues

1. Verify SQL Server is running
2. Check connection strings
3. Verify network connectivity
4. Check firewall rules

### High Memory Usage

1. Monitor container resources
2. Scale services horizontally
3. Optimize application code
4. Increase server resources

For more troubleshooting, see [Troubleshooting Guide](../devops/TROUBLESHOOTING.md).

---

## 📚 Related Documentation

- [CI/CD Quick Start](../devops/CI_CD_QUICK_START.md) - CI/CD setup
- [Secrets Setup](../devops/SECRETS_SETUP.md) - Secrets configuration
- [Architecture](ARCHITECTURE.md) - System architecture
- [Troubleshooting](../devops/TROUBLESHOOTING.md) - Common issues

---

**Last Updated**: November 2025
